---
layout: post
titile: Kahoot
---

Just few words on my recent dive into [Kahoot](https://getkahoot.com/).  
Kahoot is a tool that enable teacher and student alike to ask questions.  
This is not a technical piece, more of a personal take on my own class room experience and more.  

Ever been in a class room?  
Ever been so bored, that you fell asleep in that class room?  
I know I did, especially after lunch.  
Especially when it solely consisted of 2 hours of listening to a single monotonous voice.  
Well, it seems that I&#39;m not the only [one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wbuJgRZrago).  

I cannot say that we can avoid poeple being bored in a class room 100% of the time.  
What I&#39;m now sure of, is that there is a tool to help with it.  
And I&#39;m not only talking attention span and people falling asleep (the answer is not a flying piece of chalk).  
The good part is that you are already familliar with the kind of tool.  
You know the thing that puts you on the edge of your seat.  
The thing that creates a craving for massive wins.  
Common! You know it feel good because it provides instant rewards.  
You found it already? We call them games.  

So why have I been bored in classroom many times.  
Is it the subject not worthy studying?  
Was the subject too hard to understand?  
Or was it the usefulness of learning that subject?  
I had the above excuses in my head for a while, but i doubt it&#39;s the main reason.  
I think I ve been bored because of the lack of interaction.  
We humans are made to interact because it makes us successful as a species.  
Without interaction (no exchange of knowledge and resources) you cannot [improve as a person](http://hintjens.com/blog:78).  
If you ever played civilization you know that cannot end up well.  
So we excel at interaction, and we need to share knowledge.  
Yet classroom doesn&#39;t feel like an interaction most of the time.  
First you sit on a chair all day.  
Then someone gets to tell you all about a topic.  
Not only you need to listen, you also need to get all that down on paper while you are at it.  
Finally, you need to prove the same person you remember it all.  
It&#39;s time for the widely dreaded 'test'.  
The point here is mainly to remember and restitute.  

Thanksfully, that&#39;s not the only way.  
Once in a while you have a teacher with a passion.  
The kind of teacher that go above and beyond the text book.  
His goal is not only to make you go from one year to another with a minimal set of knowledge.  
His goal is for you to comprehend the essence of his subject.  
Many of my history teacher were passionate.  
Maybe because they know their [George Santayana&#39;s quote.](http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/George_Santayana)  
Yet I don&#39;t remember much in a way of creating content in history lessons or any lessons.  
Once in a while you get to team up with classmate to investigate a topic and report on it in front of the class.  
It usually end up as good as the person that present it, or as bad as the worse presenter if the whole team is speaking.  
This is often not something people like to do, being under the spot light, might it be only your classmates, is not something everyone enjoy.  
It can be as painful to watch you peer sinking in, not able to deliver a speech.  
While this empower creation and certainly involve interaction between team mates, it falls short on the delivery to the audience.  
The whole audience is not there receiving knowledge.  
The audience will judge, with all the bias and prejudice they hold against the speaker(s).[1]  
Even if the only person that should be judging is the teacher.  
My experience here is that those work tend not to be rated.  
While it is easy to set rules for well defined characteristic (like for spelling, grammar, etc.), it is not easy to create a set rules for a creative work grading.  
I often see [creativity](http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/creativity) usage to be limited within the [art](http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/american_english/creativity) scope.  
Everyone can disagree with 'art'.  
You can understand it is the results of tough process and work, but fundamentally reject it.  
It is OK to admit bias on 'art' without removing the worthyness of the effort.  
No one like to admit of his own bias unless it is socially acepted.  
I can tell you that the best poetry writting don&#39;t hold against the might of [writting rightness](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Grammar+Nazi)  
Maybe I diverge a bit, but it is important to point out that creativity is a hard thing to judge and teacher may not nessecary be the most equiped to do it.  

In summary my boredom was due to a the lack of interaction.  
That lack of interaction was blamed on the teaching dogma I mostly experinced: remember and restitute.  
Then finaly complaint on the difficulty to rate or grade creative work.  
Despair no more, a new tool is there to change teacher/students interactions: Kahoot!  
It doesn&#39;t look like much hidden under a 'quiz' label.  
I can tell you this tool go as far as changing the teacher/student roles.  
Like a test, its main goal is to be feedback system.  
Like a game, it is fast, engaging, and rewarding.  
* It&#39;s fast: You get to know what is wrong as soon as you get it wrong.  
* It&#39;s engaging: It is not only about getting it right, it is also about getting it 'more' right than the other student.  
* It is rewarding: You get to enjoy being more right with a leaderboard.  

You are on the edge of you seat, you are not going to get it right, you are going to do better than that, you are going to win.  
Once you started there is no comming back.  
Without you noticing it, you want to make your own.  
And there is more than one way to set your quiz.  
If the topic doesn&#39;t provide a venue for fast answers, you can remove the speed element.  
You keep the part where people get points for right answer and the leaderboards.  
While it probably makes the game less competitive, it also a bit more on the fair side (we don&#39;t all read at the same pace).   
The feedback can also be tuned down to be qualitative only.  
You can then use it to start a debate.  
There is no right or wrong, yet you are still engaged in the conversation.  
You now have to own your choice.  
What realy makes it, is the fact that if you take a kahoot, you are set to make one.  
How does a one create a process that focus on understanding, that lead to creation and that allow some sort of fair grading system?  

To make you own quiz, you need some neurons activity.  
You need to pick a topic and do the reasearch.  
You likely will try to trick the audience and lay traps in the questions, answers and wrong answers.  
You can leave full course to your imagination doing so.  
That&#39;s when the creation process take place.  
The whole process will require you to understand or to gain an understanding of the topic.  
Now that you made your own, possibly in a team as well, you will get it in front of the class.  
That&#39;s where I think it improve from other medium.  
While one take the quiz, one mainly judge oneself against the other attendee.   
You are not a passive cosumer judging the way the content is brought to you.  
It&#39;s not about you and the quiz maker.  
You start your reflection about the quiz once it is done.  
For me, that makes a better way of judging the creative work by itself.  
There is also bonuses to the quiz meduim.  
The experience of the person taking the quiz is a gaming one.  
If one got it wrong, nothing is stopping oneself from trying again.  
And the goal is that you try again until you succeed.  
That&#39;s what games are about, sucess!  

There you are, producer of your own teaching materials.  
Because when you formulate your own question, you go beyond storing ideas and concepts.  
You have to articulate them, set them in context and motions.  
You are now using them, making thoses abstract objects yours.  
Maybe it was unknown before, maybe you just know it better that you use to.  
You acquired experience on the topic, you got rewarded for your work.  
The relation to knowledge is now a positive experience.  
From remembering to understanding.  
From consumer to producer.  
(From kahootee to kahooter?)  

So maybe it is easier to say it in hindsight.  
Maybe I just want to excuse my lack of attention then.  
But please, if there is one thing to get out of this:  

TL;DR
Can we make learning more about getting experienced, than about being a giant harddrive ready to spit data on a push of a button?  
Kahoot!  

Edit: I also happend to watch the video called [This Will Revolutionize Education](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GEmuEWjHr5c).  
It basically says that no smartboard, smartphones, tablet or technology in general, will revolusionise education.  
What you need is good content, the media used is not significant.  
Above all you also need a good teacher to guide you through.  

Here some of my favorite quotes:  
"[..] so the question really is what experiences promote the kind of thinking required for learning [..]"  
"[..] luckily the fundamental role of a teacher is not to deliver information. It is to guide the social process of learning. the job of a teacher is to inspire, to challenge, to exite their students to want to learn [..]"  
I think kahoot is one tool to do just that, exite, challenge and inspire students.   


[1] I want to put a link to a study, but I'm unable to find its name. One can see the program in which that study was shown [here](http://www.france2.fr/emission/545b6b24706765381c1f1202/545b6fea706765381c92a402)  
