---
layout: post
tile: Mem-athon
---

A while back I started learning Polish with the help of a website called [memrise](http://www.memrise.com).  
While I didn't persevere, my partner got a hang for it and used it far more than I did.  
It feature course, for a multitude of languages.  
Some course contains the 2000 words required to pass at A-level.  
Some aim at giving you vocabulary on certain topic and contain far less words.  
Then memrise, provide you with an interface that allow you to see, hear and associate a word with an image, called a 'mem'.  
Then you go throught a list of questions, sometime finding the source-language word, sometime the target language word.  
Then it goes one knot up, when you need have the source language and you need to write the word in the target language yourself.  
The more you get a word right, the more the little seed icon grows into a full blown flower.  
Once a word is a 'flower', it means it should be in your long term memory.  
The learning occur a few set of words at a time, from a couple to maybe a dozen max.  
You can do a few sequence in a row, or just take a break to let it simmer.  
At some point, you will need to review the words you just learned, maybe at the end of the day, maybe at the begining, and there is a feature just to do that.  

Overall I think the interface does a good job getting out of the way.  
I cannot play the sounds on my machine, still I can wget them.  
I don't like most of the 'mem', but I keep an eye on them nevertheless.  
I just which that the word would be repeated everytime you get the answer right.  
Finally, there is a weekly/monthly/all time leaderboard, to compare with other member of the site.  

I'm currently trying to compare myself against Ed Cooke, the founder of memrise.
He is trying to [learn 2000 polish words in 10 days](http://www.memrise.com/blog/5-top-tips-to-win-the-memathon/).  
He started yesterday and already is leading the way for this week.  
I'm happy to say that since I started this afternoon I learned 42 words :)  

Happy learning!
