---
layout: post
tile: Vampires
---

Vampires, Vampires, Vampires!  
I even like saying the word vampires!  


I found it really interesting that we colectivelly kept and nurtured the vampire social allegory.  
Not just the ones we picture in films and books nowadays, but the one that exists in one form or another accross the world since time immemorial.  

Our ancestor gaves us clues to figure something out. 
Why is so crucial that we need to know how to spot 'vampire', to understand the tactics used to lure us and to realise what lies ahead for those who get charmed.  
But who exactly are the 'vampires' of our world?

I've been pondering on the whole 'vampires' as of late.  
It started with the reading of [children of the fight](http://hintjens.com/blog:78) blog post from  Pieter Hintjens [(known for his work on MQs)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pieter_Hintjens).  
If you haven't already I would strongly advice that you read it now.  
You should then logically read the second part called [From Dusk till Dawn ](http://hintjens.com/blog:82).  
After reading Peter's articles, I was able to put 2 names on the description offered.  
Can you?

It is to say some humans behave like vampires or 'psycopath' as Peter put it.
Psycopath, narcissist, Machiavellian, sociopath, is the far less romanticise version that our society has to offer.  

He goes and state that is difficult to spot them, as they hide in plain sight, unlike the mythical sun avoiding  creatures.  
We, mere humans, are different from them with our empaty, sense of humour and love for the art.
One thing is clear, they will cause mental illness in others, in the form of depression, PTSD, and suicidal urges.
If you doubt it, just work for the financial sector for a bit <insert adequate smiley here>.  

So who are those 2 people that struck me as 'vampires' ?
Let see what they share, and how they fit the 'sociopath' description.  
Both are in a position of power.  
Both seems to lack basic sense of humour, they don't laught.  
Unless it is at someone's expense they don't really make jokes.  
And when they do, only their minions laught.  
Yeah both have at least one minion, see [renfield](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0112896/)?  
They don't really seem to care for their familly life, or keep it very, very private.  
Finally, both show blatant apathy for the (little) world their reigned upon.  
Basically, they don't really care how detrimental it could be for other, as long as it leads to what they consider success for themselves.  
A this point, you are probably not really reading this anymore.
Hopefully you are now thinking about the one in your environment that fit the bill.  
Then I started to think, am I on too?  

Could it be possible that I'm unknowingly part of the vampire crew.  
If it is my nature, I might well not realise that I'm one myself.  
Solace came in the unconspicuious unpaired socks in my drawer.  
So I'm not a 'natural vampire' in a dracula sort of way.  
Maybe I wasn't paying attention and I became one?  
In a 'getting turned by vampire into one' kind of way.  
I did spend a fair amount of time in the vincinity of 'psycopath'.  
I don't belive that I became one (so far), maybe not for me to tell?  

How to do you make sure you don't get turned into one then?
I don't know, yet I doubt its done through the use of garlic.
I would put my money on the threshold rule.
Not opening one's door to a psycopath, surely help not to let a psycopath enter's one life.
Logically next step is to make sure I don't end up stuck with a management that fitsthe depicted character description ever again.
I doubt I can avoid psycopath altogether, but as they are outnumbered, I'm sure I can minimise their effect one my life.  


We can colelctivelly acknoledge that 'psycopath' exist, but are they just too real to be faced as what they are?
Maybe we still need the 'vampire' allegory.
Even if it carries some cultural burden attached to a bunch of cluttered notion from a 18th century fearing society.

Hopefully by now, you are thinking about watching a good old vampire movie
Well if you don't you might be one of them ;)
I would strongly recommend you to [buy this film](http://www.amazon.co.uk/Afflicted-DVD-Derek-Lee/dp/B00MWULTOW) and maybe watch "only lovers left alive".  
Both provide a satisfing new view on the topic that completly depart from the whole narative of this blog post

TL;DR: Vampires are overdone as genre in the Arts, the same way this door is overdoing the use [warning sings](https://twitter.com/PaddyOClery/status/553484884464140288/photo/1) for a probably good reason.
